GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: We bring you the
"NewsHour" tonight
from the Quicken Loans Arena in
Cleveland
, Ohio, site of the 2016
Republican National
Convention.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For the next four
days, the
political spotlight shines on
Donald Trump.
Tonight, with memories fresh of
violence at
home and abroad, the Republicans
focus on
security and immigration.
GWEN IFILL: Plus: Who is Donald
Trump? We
begin our three-part look at his
life, beginning
tonight.
MICHAEL D'ANTONIO, Trump
Biographer: From
the very start with Donald, it
was about getting
control of the family business,
building it,
growing it, and becoming the
rich and famous
and powerful person that he
eventually became.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan
in Washington. We will have all
the non-convention
news of the day, including
another ambush
targeting police officers,
leaving three dead
and three wounded in Baton
Rouge, Louisiana.
Plus: Turkey's crackdown. We're
on the ground
there as the country's
government fires nearly
9,000 police, and arrests 6,000
others after
a failed military coup.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Republican
National Convention
has officially opened for
business, but not
without a fuss. Opponents of
Donald Trump
objected loudly to adopting
convention rules
by voice vote.
Meanwhile, the candidate is
hoping to keep
focused on a law and order
theme.
Correspondent Lisa Desjardins
begins out coverage.
REINCE PRIEBUS, Republican
National Committee
Chairman: This convention will
come to order.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: The convention
formally began
this afternoon, with events of
the last two
weeks looming over party
business. Police
killings of black men and the
killing of officers
in Dallas and now Baton Rouge
are in the air,
and Republican Party Chairman
Reince Priebus
opened with a moment of silence.
REINCE PRIEBUS: The men and
women who protect
our safety and well-being, who
put their lives
on the line every day, they're
our genuine
heroes. We also want to
recognize all the
families who have lost loved
ones during these
troubling times.
LISA DESJARDINS: The theme of
day one is make
America safe again.
That idea of security will not
just dominate
here at the convention, but also
throughout
the Trump campaign, we're told.
Donald Trump
will try to make the case that
the leadership
of President Obama and Hillary
Clinton has
fed violence here at home and
insecurity abroad.
Tonight's speakers are meant to
drive that
message home, including
Milwaukee Sheriff
David Clarke, retired Navy SEAL
Marcus Luttrell,
and former New York City Mayor
Rudy Giuliani.
In a convention twist, Trump
himself will
introduce his wife, Melania, the
night's featured
speaker. But not everyone is
here to see it.
Ohio Governor John Kasich, a
one-time Trump
opponent, is staying away, and
so are former
Presidents George W. Bush and
his father,
George H.W. Bush.
Trump campaign manager Paul
Manafort today
brushed aside the absences.
PAUL MANAFORT, Trump Convention
Manager: The
Bush family, while we would
liked to have
had them, they are not -- they
have not been
-- they are part of past. We're
dealing with
the future. We're dealing with
fixing the
issues that relate to the
future.
LISA DESJARDINS: Another former
Trump opponent,
Ben Carson, told the
"NewsHour"'s John Yang:
BEN CARSON (R), Former
Presidential Candidate:
The choice is going to be as
dramatic as any
choice we have ever had. We are
talking about
traditional American values,
faith, family,
personal responsibility,
compassion for your
neighbor, vs. a continuation of
secular progressivism.
LISA DESJARDINS: Meanwhile,
hundreds of protesters
showed up today.
WOMAN: We should have turned our
backs on
what I see as a festival of
hate. I'm very,
actually, disappointed.
LISA DESJARDINS: Several hundred
Trump supporters
also gathered for a rally today,
and a few
were openly carrying guns.
Authorities have
banned some items in the event
zone around
the convention. But under Ohio's
open-carry
law, firearms are permitted.
That's adding
to security worries and the
heavy police presence.
Cleveland Police Chief Calvin
Williams:
CALVIN WILLIAMS, Cleveland,
Ohio, Police Chief:
We want to make sure that the
demonstrators
are safe walking through the
streets of the
city of Cleveland, and we want
to make sure
we have enough officers to
respond if things
turn otherwise.
LISA DESJARDINS: Meanwhile, the
Democratic
nominee-to-be, Hillary Clinton,
was in Cincinnati,
addressing the NAACP and laying
into Trump.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Donald Trump led the movement to
delegitimize
our first black president,
trumpeting the
so-called birther movement.
Donald Trump plays
coy with white supremacists.
Donald Trump
insults Mexican immigrants, even
an American
judge born of Mexican heritage.
LISA DESJARDINS: The GOP has
been known as
the party of Lincoln. Clinton
said, we are
watching it become the party of
Trump.
And this convention saw its
first political
test tonight, just late tonight,
as the delegates
who oppose Mr. Trump called for
a roll call
vote, trying to change the rules
of this convention.
They didn't have enough states
to do that.
And in the end, the convention
receded for
dinner with the Trump forces
saying they feel
strong. Will we see more of
those objections?
We will wait and see -- Gwen,
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you, Lisa.
Gwen and I will be back later in
the program
with much more from Cleveland.
But right now to Hari
Sreenivasan in Washington
for the other main stories of
the day.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thank you,
Judy.
We turn to the crisis in Turkey,
where the
government continued its
crackdown on those
involved in an attempted coup
that left more
than 250 dead and nearly 2,000
injured. Leaders
from around the world are
calling for restraint.
"NewsHour" special correspondent
Marcia Biggs
is in Istanbul and has the
latest.
MARCIA BIGGS: Protests raged for
yet another
day in Istanbul's Taksim Square.
Supporters
of President Recep Tayyip
Erdogan vowing to
protect their leader and
Turkey's fragile
democracy.
That fury was channeled by
Turkey's prime
minister, who said the country
will evaluate
whether to reinstate the death
penalty for
some who plotted the coup.
Turkey had scrapped
capital punishment as part of
its ongoing
bid to join the European Union.
BINALI YILDIRIM, Turkish Prime
Minister (through
translator): Death penalty
requires a change
of constitution. We will decide
in compliance
with the people's will.
MARCIA BIGGS: That brought a
swift rebuke
from the E.U. foreign policy
chief, Federica
Mogherini, and others in Europe.
FEDERICA MOGHERINI, Foreign
Policy Chief,
European Union: We are the ones
saying today
rule of law has to be protected
in the country.
There is no excuse for any steps
that takes
the country away from that.
MARCIA BIGGS: Mogherini spoke
before meetings
in Brussels with Secretary of
State John Kerry
and other foreign ministers.
Kerry pledged
support for Turkey's government,
but cautioned
the U.S. and others will be
watching closely.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: NATO
also has a requirement with
respect to democracy,
and NATO will indeed measure
very carefully
what is happening.
MARCIA BIGGS: A major point of
contention
between the U.S. and Turkey, the
fate of Muslim
cleric and Erdogan opponent
Fethullah Gulen,
who lives in Pennsylvania in
self-imposed
exile. Erdogan and his
administration say
Gulen orchestrated the coup
attempt, a charge
the cleric forcefully denies.
Turkey is demanding he be
extradited. The
coup attempt by factions of
Turkey's military
launched a night of terror late
Friday. President
Erdogan, who was on vacation,
spoke first
via FaceTime on Turkish TV and
called for
his supporters to take to the
streets.
Then, late at night, he flew
into Istanbul's
airport and vowed to purge the
military and
government.
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, Turkish
President (through
translator): Those guns were
given to you
by the people of this country.
If you use
the guns against the people who
gave them
to you, you will pay a heavy
price.
MARCIA BIGGS: Chaos continued
through the
night, but by midday Saturday,
the strike
against the state was largely
defeated. Erdogan
has moved swiftly to make good
on his vow
to purge the country of what he
calls conspirators;
9,000 police and other security
officials
were fired today.
More than 6,000 military
personnel have been
detained, and more than 3,000
judges suspended.
Offices of many Turkish media
organizations
were stormed Friday night,
including state
television and CNN's Turkish
network.
Murat Yetkin is editor-in-chief
of Hurriyet
Daily News, whose office was
also taken hostage.
QUESTION: Is he in control?
MURAT YETKIN, Hurriyet Daily
News: It's president's
quote, prime minister's quote
that everything
is not over yet. That means
they're not.
QUESTION: Well, and if it were
over, he wouldn't
be still calling people out into
the street.
MURAT YETKIN: No.
MARCIA BIGGS: So, the question
remains, who
has emerged the true winner?
MURAT YETKIN: Erdogan's
popularity has increased.
MARCIA BIGGS: Whether in favor
of President
Erdogan or not, most people we
spoke to agreed
that military rule wasn't the
answer. Where
the people remain bitterly
divided is over
the future identity of their
government, Islamic
or secular.
Tarkan runs this cafe in a
secular neighborhood.
He says his biggest fear is that
his two small
children will not live in a free
Turkey.
His friend Enre is a 31-year-old
gay photographer.
When demonstrators took to the
streets on
Friday, he says he felt targeted
and with
no one to call for protection.
MAN: I don't feel any safe
really in my country
now.
WOMAN: Basically, we are not
(INAUDIBLE) people,
because we are wearing short
skirt, dress,
and drinking the alcohol and
going to bars.
MARCIA BIGGS:
Thirty-five-year-old Burcu is
terrified of the Erdogan
government's promise
to institute aspects of Islamic
law into the
traditionally secular Turkish
legal system.
WOMAN (through translator):
They're telling
us protect your democracy, but
this is not
what I understand democracy to
be or what
I want from my democracy. For
the last two
days in this country, there have
been calls
for jihad and people have been
going out to
the streets with machetes.
MARCIA BIGGS: In this
neighborhood, the people
we met were scared, sad, and
desperately uncertain
of their future. Not a 10-minute
walk away,
we met 48-year-old Taci and his
family. Taci
took his son with him out on the
streets Friday
night in support of President
Erdogan. He
praises the president for what
he has done
for the economy and scoffs at
suggestions
that Turkey under his rule has
lost its freedom.
MAN (through translator): Look
around. Everyone
can dress as they want. There'll
be no Sharia
law brought to Turkey. This will
never happen.
MARCIA BIGGS: His wife, Hulya,
tells us that
Erdogan is the strong leader the
country needs
and she is pleased that her
children can now
attend religion classes at
school, as part
of a program initiated by
Erdogan for what
he calls the devout generation.
WOMAN (through translator): If
we had Sharia
law now, the heads of these
generals who attempted
the coup would be hanging at the
palace gates.
There was no mercy during
Ottoman time under
Sharia law. We want capital
punishment. We
want it deep from our hearts.
And it will
happen, inshallah.
MARCIA BIGGS: Strong opinions on
both sides
and looming uncertainty for a
divided country
in a fragile state.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Marcia Biggs in
Istanbul, Turkey.
HARI SREENIVASAN: For more on
this, we turn
to Soner Cagaptay, director of
the Turkish
Research Program at the
Washington Institute
for Near East Policy. He's also
the author
of "The Rise of Turkey: The 21st
Century's
First Muslim Power." And
"NewsHour" chief
foreign affairs correspondent
Margaret Warner.
Soner, first, I want to ask, the
information
coming out of Turkey says the
Interior Ministry
has fired close to 9,000 people.
Were that
many people involved in this
coup?
SONER CAGAPTAY, Director,
Turkish Research
Program, Washington Institute
for Near East
Policy: Probably not.
It's likely that the military
plotters of
the coup that the government
arrested were
involved in it, but I can't
believe that 9,000
judges and many other civilian
employees were
involved in the coup. Rather,
what this suggests
is that the government is now
going after
the Gulen movement, which was
its former ally,
also a conservative movement as
the AKP's
is.
But now since the rift, 2013,
there has been
a blood feud between the two,
and it's not
a coincidence therefore that
there were some
Gulen-aligned officers who
probably took part
in this coup effort. But the
government is
casting a wider net and going
after what it
thinks are supporters and
sympathizers of
this movement in the bureaucracy
and also
in the judiciary.
So expect a large-scale
witch-hunt in Turkey
coming up.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We will talk a
little bit
more about Gulen in a second,
but, Margaret,
what is the U.S. kind of
position on what
looks like a large-scale
crackdown?
MARGARET WARNER: Well, that is
exactly the
number one U.S. concern.
The U.S. was caught off-guard by
this, Hari,
and certainly came out and said
the right
things about supporting a
democratic government,
but quickly followed by
admonitions to Erdogan
not to use this as a way to
purge, as he has
in others -- in journalist
community and the
judiciary, purge people he
thinks are his
opponents.
And when Secretary Kerry made
his first comments,
I think it was on Saturday, and
suggested
at least in the reporting that
Turkey's NATO
membership might be affected by
this, there
was a huge reaction from Turkish
diplomats,
who peppered the State
Department and the
White House demanding an
explanation.
And so today you saw the White
House press
secretary taking concerns --
taking care to
say, look, Turkey is a member,
and it's a
member. This is not like the
E.U.. But there's
certainly concern in the White
House that
this is going to deepen the rift
with Turkey,
the chilly relationship.
The labor minister even
suggested the U.S.
was behind the coup. Erdogan
hasn't repeated
that, but there are deep
concerns.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's talk a
little bit
about Fethullah Gulen.
He's in Pennsylvania. Erdogan
says he's behind
the coup. He says, I'm not
behind the coup.
Secretary Kerry says prove that
he's behind
the coup.
Who is he and does he have the
kind of influence
that scares Erdogan so much?
SONER CAGAPTAY: He's known to
have friends
in the Turkish bureaucracy,
including in the
police force, as well as the
judiciary and
the military.
And after the rift started with
him and President
Erdogan, many Gulen-aligned or
suspected Gulen-aligned
people in the bureaucracy were
kicked out.
Now this gives Erdogan a second
chance to
really go after this movement.
I think at the end, whether or
not we think
Gulen movement was behind the
coup fully,
this is what President Erdogan
believes. He
believes that this is the main
driving force
behind the coup and he will go
after them
with all his force. And whereas
earlier, the
whole issue of Gulen movement
was a talking
point in U.S.-Turkish
relationship when there
were bilateral meetings, now
it's going to
be issue number one.
Erdogan is going to insist on
his extradition
and he might even link
Turkish-U.S. cooperation
on Gulen's extradition. Now,
that may not
work with the Pentagon, which
already has
a dim view of Erdogan's
administration for
his policy of allowing radicals
to cross into
Syria to fight the Assad regime,
some of whom
have morphed into ISIS.
So, if he does link those two, I
think that
might create a backlash at the
Pentagon. People
might say, we don't want a deal
like that.
I think what Turkey ought to do
is separate
the two issues, provide to
Washington a full
and convincing account of, as
they say, Gulen's
involvement in the coup, but
keep military
cooperation separate from that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Margaret, what
Soner is
pointing to is just also the
geographic and
political importance of Turkey
right now and
how important it is to the
United States and
really all NATO allies,
especially in the
fight against ISIS.
MARGARET WARNER: Incirlik Air
Base, it's mostly
a Turkish base. And the U.S.
just has a little
section there.
But some of the coup plotters,
including the
former commander of the base who
tried to
get asylum from the U.S.,
ostensibly or reportedly
or accusedly were working out of
there. It's
all very uncomfortable. The
power has not
even been restored to the air
base, but the
U.S. has its own power.
But if you look at a map, Turkey
is absolutely
key now, given its related
involvement in
the fight against ISIS, in which
it really
is cracking down on people
trying to get in
and most importantly letting
U.S. planes use
that, not only to refuel, but to
launch offensive
strikes.
Otherwise, they have to come
from carriers
in the ocean, taking five, six
times as much
and often having to leave
without even dropping
their ordnance. Maintaining this
relationship,
you can see the United States
trying very
hard to manage it, so it doesn't
go awry,
as Soner was suggesting.
SONER CAGAPTAY: There will be
problems moving
forward, because of the fact
that there is
really no good outcome of this
coup for Turkey.
If the military had won, it
would have become
an oppressive country. And
Erdogan has won,
but it still will become a
oppressive place,
because he has a record of
cracking down on
dissent, and going after the
opposition, banning
social media, sending the police
to beat up
demonstrators.
And so far Erdogan has done all
of this based
on the assumption that there is
a conspiracy
to overthrow him. Now that
theory has legs,
because there really is a
conspiracy to overthrow
him. His supporters will embrace
his crackdown
as oppression as a necessary
tool to go after
those who want to undermine him,
and he will
continue casting a wide net
against the opposition.
While Turkey has the right, an
Erdogan administration,
to go after those who executed
this ill-conceived,
ill-executed, nefarious plot, I
think we're
going to see that his crackdown
is going to
be wider than that going after
the opposition.
It will become much more
difficult for Turks
who don't agree with him to
oppose his policies
democratically.
MARGARET WARNER: The U.S. view
is, we will
know in two weeks whether it's
that or whether
they're just rounding up a lot
of suspects
and that in two weeks most are
freed and they
really identify coup plotters.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Soner Cagaptay
and Margaret Warner, thanks so
much.
SONER CAGAPTAY: It's a pleasure.
MARGARET WARNER: Pleasure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now back to
this country
and the latest round of violence
involving
police.
Last week, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana, was the
site of protests following the
police killing
of Alton Sterling. Yesterday saw
an ambush
that left three officers killed
and three
wounded.
Jeffrey Brown reports.
JEFFREY BROWN: Mourners laid
flowers today
outside the Baton Rouge gas
station where
Sunday's slaughter took place.
And investigators
confirmed the attack was
definitely planned.
COL. MIKE EDMONSON,
Superintendent, Louisiana
State Police: There is no doubt
whatsoever
that these officers were
intentionally targeted
and assassinated. It was a
calculated act
against those who work to
protect this community
every single day.
JEFFREY BROWN: The gunman was
former Gavin
Long of Kansas City, Missouri,
who served
in the Marine Corps from 2005 to
2010, including
six months in Iraq.
He carried out the attack on his
29th birthday,
before dying in a shoot-out with
police. Long
had previously posted messages
on social media
saying he was fed up with the
treatment of
African-Americans.
GAVIN LONG, Suspect: You got to
fight back.
That's the only way a bully
knows to quit.
He doesn't know words.
JEFFREY BROWN: The slain
officers were identified
as sheriff's Deputy Brad
Garafola, and police
officers Montrell Jackson and
Matthew Gerald.
Their killing came less than two
weeks after
the death of Alton Sterling, who
was fatally
shot by Baton Rouge police
during a scuffle.
Sterling's death and the killing
of Philando
Castile in St. Paul, Minnesota,
triggered
protests nationwide. After a
protest in Dallas,
a sniper shot dead five police
officers, saying
he wanted revenge for police
killings of black
men.
Today, Attorney General Loretta
Lynch condemned
the bloodshed during a
conference of black
law enforcement officers in
Washington.
LORETTA LYNCH, U.S. Attorney
General: And
we are determined to do
everything that we
can to bridge divides, to heal
the rifts and
to restore trust.
JEFFREY BROWN: The killings
rippled through
the presidential campaign as
well. Democrat
Hillary Clinton said today there
can be no
justification for killing
police. And Republican
Donald Trump blamed President
Obama's leadership
and said, "We demand law and
order."
And from Louisiana Public
Broadcasting in
Baton Rouge, we're joined now by
the superintendent
of Louisiana state police,
Colonel Michael
Mike Edmonson.
And, first, our condolences to
you and members
of your force. I know this is
all very fresh.
Can you tell us the mood there?
How have your
officers and community
responded?
COL. MIKE EDMONSON: Well, I
think they're
doing an incredible job.
These police officers, certainly
the ones
that we talked about in the
press conference
today, those police officers,
the two Baton
Rouge city police officers that
were killed,
the one East Baton Rouge Parish
sheriff's
deputy, the one that is fighting
for his life
now, true heroes.
It was an ordinary Sunday. And I
think what
took place from 8:40 that
morning and beyond
was nothing less than
extraordinary. The mood
is somber. It's sad, but I can
promise you
that my police officers and my
state troopers
are committed, they're
dedicated, they're
professional and they're ready
to do the job
that's called upon. They're
public servants.
That's what they do.
JEFFREY BROWN: You said at the
press conference
that the police officers were
assassinated,
that it was clearly deliberate.
What tells
you that? Why were these
officers targeted?
COL. MIKE EDMONSON: It was
intentional and
it was calculated. As I watched
the film and
the video that we had from the
scene on that
particular -- just yesterday
morning, not
even 30 hours ago, a little more
than 30 hours
ago, was a gentleman, the
shooter that went
to that location.
And based on his actions and
based on what
he did at that location, he was
targeting
specifically police officers. He
was amongst
the civilians. He saw civilians
in the area.
He didn't even engage them. He
discounted
them. He didn't even look at
them. He went
specifically for a location of a
Baton Rouge
city police car. He was engaged
on that police
car.
When no one was in there, he
backed off, and
he went back around, went to
another location,
which was right next door to
that, parked
his car, went towards a Baton
Rouge police
officer that was vacuuming his
car before.
He had left. At that point,
police starting
being called in that area
because people see
someone with a gun.
As they're responding, he has
backtracked
around one of the side
buildings, and he engages
two Baton Rouge police officers.
He kills
them. He engages a sheriff's
deputy. The sheriff's
deputy was going back to one of
those police
officers who had been shot just
to try to
render first aid. He kills him.
He then moves around, works
himself back around
to the other side, engages a
sheriff's deputy
who was in his car, shot through
that car,
and that is the one that is
grasping for his
life right now. And that's when
he was shot
and killed by Baton Rouge SWAT.
His intentions were clear. You
can see it
on the tape. You can watch it
unfold as he
moves forward. They were
deliberate and they
were calculated. No doubt in our
mind he was
aiming for police officers.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, that's his
intentions.
There is still a lot of
questions of his motives.
What questions do you have? Are
you sure,
first of all, that it was just
him? Do you
think that perhaps there were
others involved?
Do you know why he came to Baton
Rouge?
COL. MIKE EDMONSON: A lot of
unanswered questions.
What we clearly do know is that
the young
individual is a shooter, that
the Baton Rouge
police department SWAT team shot
and killed,
was indeed the individual who
killed those
police officers. We believe him
to be acting
alone in that particular
scenario.
But we want to find out what
brought him to
Baton Rouge, what brought him to
that location
and what brought him to kill
those police
officers? We have got to
backtrack that car.
We have got to go to 8:40
yesterday morning
and go backwards and try to work
that timeline.
Where did the car come from,
where did it
travel to, what are the cities
he go to, why
was he in Baton Rouge? Was he
actually looking
for the locations?
Was he trying to find locations
where police
officers were? And while he was
here, who
else was he talking to? For
those unanswered
questions, we will look at
social media and
we will starting filing each of
those. It's
a large puzzle, a lot of pieces.
We just need
to put it together.
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes, excuse me
for interrupting
you, because you referred to
other cities
that he went to. There are
reports that he
was in Dallas.
COL. MIKE EDMONSON: We're
hearing all of those.
And that's why I say we need to
look at the
footprint of that particular
vehicle, find
out where it went prior to 8:40
that morning,
work it as far back as we can,
and try to
find out was anyone else
involved, was he
looking at other locations, what
other possible
crimes he's committed, how do he
get those
guns, all the things that need
to be to put
that puzzle together, so that we
can completely
tell the story.
Let me tell you something. Those
three, those
three police officers, they
deserve that we
get it right.
JEFFREY BROWN: And just very
briefly, if I
could, because there's so much
talk today
around the country about how
police are responding
to these shootings, are you
changing your
procedures at all in terms of
how your officers
respond to emergencies, for
example?
COL. MIKE EDMONSON: I wouldn't
do anything
different than what I have seen.
I have been a police officer for
36 years.
I have been superintendent for
nine. The foundation
of our training is solid. It's
built around
principles. I think what we need
to do, every
time there's an incident
anywhere in this
country and around the world
that involves
police, we take it, and work
through it in
Louisiana.
We ask our officers, how would
you act in
this situation? And we talk
those things through.
That type of training has got to
continue.
But I believe the training that
we have, that
foundation is there. We just
need to build
upon it.
We need to go wherever it takes
us, any other
thing we can do, because here's
the deal.
You can't get enough training.
You can't get
enough talking about scenarios
to where you
can continually to be proactive.
I think that's
what the public expects from us.
And that's
certainly what we need to do.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right,
Colonel Michael
Edmonson, thank you very much.
COL. MIKE EDMONSON: Thank you,
sir. God bless
you. And we need you. We need
your prayers,
please. Tell the country, please
pray for
us. We need it.
JEFFREY BROWN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's been an
action-packed
day already here in Cleveland.
We're excited
about our first ever joint "PBS
NewsHour"-NPR
coverage of the 2016
conventions.
"Weekend Edition Sunday" host
Rachel Martin
will be with us this week and
next. She's
at the podium here right now
with a preview
of what we expect to see tonight
-- Rachel.
RACHEL MARTIN: Hi, Judy.
I'm actually down on the floor
of the convention
arena. This is where all the
action is going
to take place tonight. Delegates
are on a
break, but we can expect them to
fill this
hall in, in the next little
while.
As you know, the Trump campaign
has set up
a theme for every night, and
tonight the theme
is make America safe again, so
you can be
sure there is going to going to
be a lot of
conversation about national
security issues.
And a word you are going to hear
a lot tonight,
Benghazi.
They are going to put out guests
who are really
going to try to target Hillary
Clinton on
the issue of Benghazi. We are
going to hear
from a mother of one of the four
Americans
who was killed there. We're also
going to
hear from some of his supporters
in Congress.
Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions
will speak.
It will be up to him to try to
bridge that
divide between Donald Trump and
some of the
establishment that is still not
yet on the
board. And, of course, the
marquee event,
Melania Trump is going to be
introducing her
husband.
She is going to try to give a
more personal
look at this candidate. She
might get upstaged,
though. The candidate himself is
expected
to introduce her -- back to you,
Gwen and
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will be
watching and
talking to you, Rachel.
Right now, we get the
perspective of the Trump
campaign from one of the
candidate's senior
advisers. She is Kellyanne
Conway.
Thank you for joining us in our
sky booth.
KELLYANNE CONWAY, Trump Campaign
Senior Adviser:
Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Kellyanne Conway,
how united
are the Republicans tonight? We
saw a little
bit of chaos break out a couple
of hours ago
when the delegates were asked
about nominating
Donald Trump.
KELLYANNE CONWAY: Well, that was
a couple
of the never Trump delegates'
last-ditch attempt.
We thought the other day was a
last-ditch
attempt. There have been three
or four of
them to really either try to
embarrass Mr.
Trump or rob him of the
nomination. They failed
again and again.
But, look, this is what
conventions are for.
This is direct democracy. I
think, in terms
of party unity, there is no
Bernie Sanders
equivalent in the Republican
Party right now
to Hillary Clinton, no one who
won 22 or 23
states, millions of votes, and
just last week
decided to drop out and endorse.
I think this is healthy for
parties to have
some growing pains, shed some
skin, and have
these debates, whether they're
out in public
or behind closed doors, as we
are more accustomed
to.
GWEN IFILL: I saw House Speaker
Paul Ryan
today.
And he was talking about --
everyone is talking
about unity and how ones finds a
way to make
sure that party is on the same
page. He talked
about being a party of ideas. We
hear less
about ideas. But among the ideas
are about
building a wall or the ideas are
about banning
a religion from coming in the
country, those
kinds of ideas.
And when we asked Paul Ryan
about that, he
kind of bit his tongue. Do you
feel like the
unity is where it needs to be in
that front?
KELLYANNE CONWAY: Well, what I
think is Donald
Trump has many more ideas, like
the 10-point
VA reform plan he laid out in
Virginia Beach
just a week ago, Gwen, where he
-- it's 10
points.
Anybody can read it. He
basically said if
we don't do what's right by our
veterans,
if we don't provide them basic
care and health
services and care about them who
fought for
all of our freedoms, the right
to sit here
and converse with each other,
frankly, what
are we doing as a nation?
Then he went and gave a 10-point
road map
that anybody can examine. They
can agree or
disagree with it. But at least
it's there.
And you will hear more substance
this week
from Donald Trump. He's got a
tax plan that's
been out there for a while.
He has a repeal-and-replace an
Obamacare plan.
Nobody seems to want to talk
about it or cover.
I am on TV every day. Nobody has
yet asked
me to compare the two health
care plans or
the two national security plans.
So, I, for one, agree with...
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: Here's your chance.
Here is your
chance.
KELLYANNE CONWAY: And I'm happy
to do that.
I, for one, agree with Speaker
Ryan in this
regard. I would love for all of
us to move
from this cacophony of
content-free campaigning
into a more substantive debate.
I think voters
deserve that. And I know voters
want that.
I feel like a religious debate
on the issues,
then people will see they have a
very stark
choice in the future vision of
Hillary Clinton
and Donald Trump, and that those
who want
a change election will go for
the outsider,
for Donald Trump, much the way
they went for
Barack Obama in '08 and Bill
Clinton in '92,
after two terms of the party in
power.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You used the term
shedding
skin.
And I want to ask you about
that, because
today the campaign manager, Paul
Manafort,
told a group of reporters. He
said, this is
a convention about the future.
It's a campaign
about the future, not about the
past, when
he was asked about the fact that
both former
Presidents Bush are not here, as
well as Mitt
Romney and John McCain.
You worked for President George
H.W. Bush's
vice president, Dan Quayle.
KELLYANNE CONWAY: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you feel
about the Bushes
and others not being here?
KELLYANNE CONWAY: Well, that is
their right.
We certainly welcome them. We're
glad that
they have devoted so much of
their lives to
public service.
We understand that Jeb Bush
wanted to be here
this week accepting the
nomination, and that
there are some hard feelings
there. But Dan
Quayle himself, Judy, the former
vice president,
has endorsed Donald Trump.
The other Bush -- Vice President
Dick Cheney
has endorsed Donald Trump, Newt
Gingrich.
So there's a little bit of a
split that way
of those who have and those who
haven't. But,
again, I wouldn't want to belong
to a party
where everybody was meant to
talk the same,
either say the -- agree on the
same things.
We hope that they're cheering
for the party
from afar. And, also, I also
just want to
say that this party is always
looking for
the next Ronald Reagan. Do you
ever listen
to the candidates? They channel
Ronald Reagan.
We're looking for the next
And they were picking Bushes for
a while.
So it is -- I said on a
different station
last night, this campaign will
be about the
future, not the past. And I
believe the selection
of Mike Pence broadcast that
loud and clear
to voters also, because he's a
fresh face
to many Americans. They're
unfamiliar with
him.
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: I want to ask you
about Mike Pence.
What kind of reaction are you
hearing now
that the delegates are here in
town? Is it
a sigh of relief? Is it an
embrace? Is it
a who -- isn't this guy a part
of the establishment?
What kind of reaction are you
getting?
KELLYANNE CONWAY: He's pure
excitement.
Actually, Mike Pence, in his 12
years in Congress,
Gwen and Judy, he voted against
a lot of the
Bush spending bills, No Child
Left Behind,
Medicare Part B prescription
drug, of course,
TARP.
And so he was able to -- he was
willing to
stand up to leaders of both
parties. It's
very refreshing, frankly, to
have someone
in your own party say to a
president of that
party, I'm sorry, I just don't
agree with
you, something Bernie Sanders
has done with
President Obama again and again.
And also I believe Mike Pence is
somebody
who was in Washington who never
was of Washington,
Rust Belt Midwestern governor,
sitting on
$2 billion surplus, gave tax
cuts across the
board to employers and
individuals, spurring
that kind of growth.
When he got there after Mitch
Daniels, 8.4
percent unemployment, now less
than 5 percent.
There's a great story to tell
there.
And I just wanted to note that
John McCain
and Mitt Romney could not win
those Midwestern
states. They lost them all twice
to President
Obama. Let's at least give
Trump-Pence a try
to state their case in those
states and see
how they fare.
GWEN IFILL: Kellyanne Conway,
senior adviser
to Donald J. Trump, who later
this week will
be the -- no longer be likely --
will be the
Republican nominee.
Thank you.
KELLYANNE CONWAY: Thank you for
having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: From reality TV to
the top of
the GOP, Donald Trump has been
in the spotlight
for decades. What do we know
about his past
that gives hints to where he
wants to lead
the country in the future?
Tonight, we begin our series on
the likely
Republican nominee with a look
at Trump's
early years.
Donald Trump was and is a child
of New York,
born and raised in the borough
of Queens to
a life of hard-earned privilege.
He was the
fourth of five children born to
a Scottish
immigrant mother, Mary, and a
housing developer
father, Fred, who left an
important mark on
his son.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
My father was great. Good
salesman. Good builder.
He loved to build houses. He was
a good builder.
I learned so much from him. And
he was a great
guy, a lovely guy. I loved my
father.
GWEN IFILL: Fred Trump, a shrewd
and political
businessman, made a fortune
building low-income
housing in Brooklyn and Queens
beginning in
the late 1920s.
GWENDA BLAIR, Author, "The
Trumps": The family
lived in a 23-room house. They
had a chauffeur,
a maid. The kids got taken by
the chauffeur
to their private school every
morning.
GWEN IFILL: The children were
all raised to
be high achievers, but Donald,
in particular,
patterned himself after his
father.
Author Gwenda Blair.
GWENDA BLAIR: Dad worked 24/7.
If it was Sunday,
you wouldn't take that day off.
You would
put the kids in the car and go
over to a construction
site. You would look for unused
nails, because
why would you waste a nail? He
was a very
tough and demanding guy, said to
have told
his boys, be killers, win, very
competitive.
And that competitive streak came
out double
in Donald.
GWEN IFILL: But that same
pressure didn't
sit well with Trump's oldest
brother, Freddy.
Here's author Timothy O'Brien.
TIMOTHY O'BRIEN, Author,
"TrumpNation": Fred
Jr. really couldn't stand the
pressure. He
ended up not going into his
father's real
estate business, wanted to
become a pilot.
He ended up an alcoholic, and he
died of alcoholism.
GWEN IFILL: Trump cites Freddy's
experience
as why he doesn't drink.
DONALD TRUMP: I probably
wouldn't be here
talking to you today if -- if we
didn't -- if
I didn't have my brother Fred,
because he
kept me off alcohol. Now, maybe,
with my kind
of a personality, I would be a
serious alcoholic.
I just don't know. But I have
never had a
glass of alcohol in my life.
GWEN IFILL: Biographer Michael
D'Antonio says
young Donald's thirst for
attention often
landed him in trouble at school.
MICHAEL D'ANTONIO, Trump
Biographer: He said
to me that he was wise guy. He's
the fellow
who threw an eraser and gave the
teacher a
black eye, and would throw cake
around a birthday
party. So, I can imagine him as
being a little
terror.
GWEN IFILL: It proved even too
much for Fred
Trump to handle. So, at age 13,
Donald's parents
shipped him upstate to the New
York Military
Academy.
GWENDA BLAIR: Many kids, of
course, are desperately
homesick, can't wait to go home.
He apparently
loved military school. He liked
the -- the
kind of out-front, I think,
competitiveness
of it. There were so many
different ways that
you could excel and get medals
and ribbons,
cleanest room, shiniest shoes,
all that kind
of stuff.
GWEN IFILL: Donald Trump
thrived, rising in
rank, and he was socially
popular with men
and women. He also gravitated
toward sports,
or, rather, winning in sports,
in soccer,
wrestling, football, and
baseball.
TIMOTHY O'BRIEN: He excelled at
baseball,
to the point where I think his
coaches felt
that he could become a
professional baseball
player. I think military school
at least wrung
some of his adolescent excesses
out of him
for a brief period of time.
But the thing to remember about
Donald Trump
is that his wealth sort of
created a bubble
around him, and he's been able
to pursue his
appetites and really do whatever
he wanted
to do for most of his life with
very few restraints.
GWEN IFILL: After graduation, he
lived at
home while commuting to Fordham
University
in the Bronx.
GWENDA BLAIR: His sister told me
that the
reason he went to Fordham -- I
asked, and
she said, it's where he got in.
GWEN IFILL: Two years later, he
transferred
to the University of
Pennsylvania's Wharton
School of Finance and Commerce.
MICHAEL D'ANTONIO: You won't
find people at
Penn who will say, well, I was
Donald's really
good friend, I was in a
fraternity with him,
or we socialized.
He didn't do any of those
things. He studied.
And then, come Friday, as soon
as he could,
he'd jump in his car and go back
to Queens,
where he worked with his dad.
So, from the
very start with Donald, it was
about getting
control of the family business,
building it,
growing it, and becoming the
rich and famous
and powerful person that he
eventually became.
GWEN IFILL: Trump graduated from
Penn in 1968
to start what quickly became a
celebrity real
estate career.
And we pick it up there with
syndicated columnist
Mark Shields, New York Times
columnist David
Brooks, joined tonight special
treat, by Amy
Walter of The Cook Political
Report.
Welcome, everybody.
Another convention. Another four
years, another
convention.
Let's start by talking about
what we have
seen happening playing out
already on the
floor today. They have only been
in for a
few hours. They're on dinner
break now.
But, David, there was kind of a
little bit
of an uprising. And various
Trump supporters
and mainstream people like Paul
Ryan have
been going around today trying
to say, where
is the party, where is the
party?
Where is the party?
DAVID BROOKS: It's not united,
but it's not
opposed.
And that is to say, there is a
lot of disagreement,
but there's no opposition to
Trump. And, as
we saw today, as we have seen
all year, really,
the Trump forces are willing to
take more
risks than the anti-Trump
forces.
And so what happened today was
that a bunch
of people were on the verge of
confronting
the party, what is now the Trump
party establishment.
And they sort of got beat back,
partly by
strong-arm tactics, partly by
pressure, oh,
we can't help Hillary, and they
got beat.
And so it's a question of morale
and courage.
And the Trump people have it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, do you think
they're likely
to pull themselves together by
the end of
this week?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: The
anti-Trump forces? This has been
a problem
with the never Trump movement,
is that they
have always had an antagonist in
Donald Trump.
They have never had a
protagonist
They have never had somebody who
is going
to fill the space. If not Trump,
then who?
And so wanting to be a different
party, wanting
to have a different kind of
candidate, that's
fine, but put that person
forward.
I also think that this has been
the goal of
the convention, is not
necessarily what happens
down there on the floor, but
what happens
after this convention? Will we
see a party
that looks more united among
voters?
GWEN IFILL: How does this
compare, Mark, to
conventions we have all sat
around the table
and talked? I have never seen
anything quite
like over something as obscure
as the rules
of the convention.
MARK SHIELDS: Well, last time I
saw something
like that was 1980 in New York,
when the Kennedy
people opposing Jimmy Carter's
renomination
tried to turn it into a moral
issue, that
delegates should be able to vote
their own
conscience, which is
philosophically interesting,
but politically indefensible,
because you
run as a Cruz delegate or a
Trump delegate.
I'm not running for Mark Shields
in most places.
GWEN IFILL: You would have my
vote, Mark Shields.
MARK SHIELDS: And I appreciate
that. But it's
a rationalization.
The problem for the anybody but
Trump group
is, it's been a concept without
a candidate.
They have never had -- they have
never been
able to put a face. They can
agree that there
ought to be somebody, but they
can never agree
who that somebody is.
And the Wall Street Journal/NBC
poll show
that 38 percent of Republicans
are satisfied
with this choice. So, there is a
major task
this week, not as much in the
hall, but in
the country, to unite the party,
to unite
the campaign.
GWEN IFILL: And, David, how much
does Pence
-- how much help does Mike Pence
bring in
that regard?
(CROSSTALK)
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: This is -- one of
the things
-- the weird thing about this
party, it's
not a normal party. It's one
person.
The campaign is one person. And
whether Trump
is disciplined or not is really
the story
here. What I'm finding is, as
everybody tries
to get him to tone himself down,
he gets Trumpier.
And so he...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Trumpier.
DAVID BROOKS: Gave a rally in
Cincinnati where
he was just off into weird land,
doing free
association.
And let's face it. The Pence
rollout session
was one of the weirdest vice
presidential
rollout sessions in presidential
history,
where the candidate could not
keep his focus
on his subject, which was Pence.
But he just
-- gravitational pull, he had to
talk about
himself. And if he's going that
for the next
few months, then there will be
no shared campaign.
It will just be Donald Trump on
a one-man
band.
GWEN IFILL: Well, Donald Trump,
one-man band
and his staff.
We saw Paul Manafort, his -- I
guess he's
his campaign manager. I don't
think he has
an official title.
MARK SHIELDS: No.
GWEN IFILL: Criticizing the
governor of Ohio,
who is not at this convention
here in Ohio,
and actually saying pretty harsh
things about
him.
AMY WALTER: Well, not only that.
If your issue is unity, and Paul
Manafort
came out -- we were at his press
conference
yesterday -- he said, that is
going to be
the goal.
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: That was today.
AMY WALTER: That was today.
Today is unity
day.
And then you come out and hit
the governor
of Ohio, who you beat, and say
that it's a
mistake for him not to be there.
He's getting
in a Twitter war, Paul Manafort
is, with the
Ohio state Republican Party
chairman.
Again, you may not -- you may
see them as
the establishment and part of
the problem,
but it would be at least good
not to antagonize
them. And this has been the
problem all along,
which is, this is a campaign, it
looks like
beyond Donald Trump, but into
his campaign
manager, too, they are not
magnanimous winners.
They're not gracious losers.
And that's going to make it hard
for at least
a certain segment of the
population, you know,
the Republican electeds, at
least, to get
around him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields, not
only going
after John Kasich, but after the
Bushes. I
was at that briefing today with
Paul Manafort.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He was very
critical of George
W. Bush and his father for not
being here.
MARK SHIELDS: Well, you want to
be humble
in victory and proud in defeat.
And you want to be seeking
converts, and not
heretics. And it seems that the
first 24 hours,
they have been looking for
heretics, banished
to the outer darkness, the
Bushes and John
Kasich, when they ought to be
saying, I'm
confident they will come over.
They will be
convinced by this convention.
They will join
us, that it will be great, and I
look forward
to their support on Columbus Day
or Labor
Day or wherever.
You don't start punishing
people.
GWEN IFILL: Except, when have we
ever seen
that from this campaign? The one
thing Donald
Trump keeps saying is, hey, this
worked. I
beat 16 of them, so why should I
change now?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
I would say two things are
happening. They're
running an objectively bad
campaign, and the
world is conspiring to help
Donald Trump,
because if -- we got the
violence in Nice,
we got violence in the streets
in America.
And if you wanted a cultural
climate where
an authoritarian figure was
going to be -- people
might flock to him, this is that
climate.
MARK SHIELDS: I agree.
But just to come back to what
Peter Hart,
the Wall Street Journal/NBC
pollster, said,
he said this is a change
election, and there
is no question. And we're having
earthquake
after earthquake, aftershock
after aftershock.
But in a change year, Donald
Trump has become
the chaos candidate. And that's
what he can't
project is chaos. And there has
got to be
order and discipline and a sense
of magnanimity,
as Amy mentioned. And I just
think that's
what's missing. And if that's
not here this
week, it is going to be a severe
body blow
to his chances.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Amy, what we
hear is that
they're going to try to tie all
this chaos
in the world and here in this
country with
the violence we have seen in the
last weeks
directly to Hillary Clinton and
Barack Obama.
AMY WALTER: Well, listen,
there's a good case
to be made by Republicans...
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
AMY WALTER: ... that a
Democratic administration
has not taken care of -- or what
they're going
to argue is they have actually
exacerbated
the chaos in the world. And
there is a good
case to prosecute there.
They just have a very terrible
person doing
the prosecuting at this point,
in part because
-- and I think this is the most
important
thing he needs to do here, is
look like the
kind of person who has the
temperament to
be able to make these sorts of
decisions in
times of crisis in a very
chaotic world.
And I think that's the most
important thing
that he needs to do. All the
talk about unity
is nice and fun, but at the end
of the day,
if he comes out of here with
more voters saying,
you know what, I can see him
now, give him
-- I can see the opportunity for
him to lead
in a time of crisis.
Right now, it's not there. The
polls are not
showing it. That's what this is
about.
GWEN IFILL: Well, we have a
convention opening
tonight. And we're going to hear
from Rick
Perry, someone who actually did
endorse him.
We're going to hear from other
people who
ran against him and endorsed
him. We don't
know where Chris Christie has
gotten to, but
we are going to hear from other
people. And
in the end, this may be just a
typical convention,
albeit with a couple of sitcom
stars added
in.
DAVID BROOKS: Well, Scott Baio,
let's not
underestimate the -- and that
guy from "The
Bold and the Beautiful,"
whatever his name
is, that guy.
GWEN IFILL: That guy. That guy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: "Charles in
Charge."
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: But it is -- it's
actually kind
of weird.
Like, we come here and you think
Trump has
changed everything.
AMY WALTER: No.
DAVID BROOKS: The stage, it
looks like a normal
convention stage. The crowd
convention.
The one thing that is different,
as you talk
to people in the delegations,
for a lot of
people, this is their first
convention. There
really is recycling of the human
-- the people
who are here, this is their
first time for
a whole chunk of them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Some people very
happy, proud,
they say, that there aren't many
politicians
here.
AMY WALTER: And that's another
difference,
is that all the establishment
folks that would
be hosting parties, or we would
be going to
press conferences and talking to
and using
as sources, none of them are
here today.
And that's exactly what Donald
Trump is arguing,
which is, that is a segment of
the party that
has failed them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, thank
you all.
We will see a lot of you over
the next two
weeks, Amy Walter, David Brooks,
Mark Shields.
Let's now take a look behind the
scenes at
what it takes to put a
convention like this
together.
John Yang is our guide.
JOHN YANG: People have come to
the Republican
Convention in Cleveland for many
reasons.
MAN: The number one thing that
we need to
achieve here at convention is
unity.
MAN: We want to make the party
seem more relevant.
WOMAN: I'm looking forward to
seeing Donald
Trump.
JOHN YANG: The person in charge
of making
it happen, convention executive
producer Phil
Alongi.
PHIL ALONGI, Executive Producer,
Republican
National Convention: Believe it
not, this
is my 17th political convention.
JOHN YANG: For 15 of them, he
was a top producer
for NBC News. Now he's doing it
for the Republican
Party.
PHIL ALONGI: I always feel that
any opportunity
to give voters information and
fulfill our
responsibility is what we should
do. This
is a news event and it should be
handled by
a news person.
JOHN YANG: Alongi is in charge
of planning
every detail of the program you
will see on
your screens, from the balloon
drop, setting
up signs, even the audio and
video displays
inside the hall. He and his team
started planning
it in April of 2015.
As you go through that period
and once you
get down to the actual
presumptive nominee,
are there tweaks and changes you
have got
to do?
PHIL ALONGI: Always. We didn't
know who the
nominee was going to be. We
wanted to be able
to make them feel they were part
of the process
and engage.
JOHN YANG: What sort of
personalization did
the Trump campaign want?
PHIL ALONGI: Certainly, the look
of the lectern.
What we're able to do with this
set is achieve,
through lighting, through the
screens any
kind of mood of whatever.
JOHN YANG: His favorite
features, the two
giant video screens on the
podium.
PHIL ALONGI: It's 1,711 square
feet of LED
screens, something like 10
million pixels.
The upper screen is a convex
screen, so it
comes out to you. And the lower
screen is
a concave, so it draws you in,
and so that's
what we're hoping. It keeps
everything flowing.
JOHN YANG: Alongi's first
position as executive
producer for the party was 2012
in Tampa.
This is a political year unlike
any other.
How does this compare to the
last time?
PHIL ALONGI: Well, we had
Governor Romney
earlier in the process, a
different candidate,
a different type of race.
JOHN YANG: Delegates we spoke
with, each want
to came away with something
different.
WOMAN: I'm going to take away
all this memory,
all this nice time.
MAN: Then I feel as a delegate
that I made
a difference.
JOHN YANG: For Alongi, the goal
is clear.
PHIL ALONGI: The challenge of
working on this
event from here is you have to
keep 20,000-plus
people entertained here and
interested, and
you have the millions of people
that are back
home watching.
Now, I just want to bring
whatever I can into
that control room and give the
people the
best show that they can possibly
get.
JOHN YANG: That show standards
tonight, as
Melania Trump and Republican
notables take
this stage.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang in Cleveland.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And our coverage
will start
tonight at 8:00 p.m. Eastern.
Tune in from your car or the
couch for our
special NPR/"PBS NewsHour"
coverage of the
Republican National Convention
Cleveland -- now
back to Hari in Washington.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks, Judy
and Gwen.
In the day's other news: The
fourth Baltimore
police officer to stand trial
for the death
of Freddie Gray was acquitted
today. Lieutenant
Brian Rice was the
highest-ranking officer
charged. Gray died in April 2015
after being
critically injured during a ride
in a police
van. Two other officers have
been acquitted,
and two more are awaiting trial.
The trial
of a sixth officer ended in a
hung jury.
An Afghan teenager attacked
passengers on
a train in Germany tonight with
an axe and
a knife. Several were seriously
wounded. Police
say it happened on a regional
train near the
city of Wurzburg and Bavaria.
Police killed
the 17-year-old attacker.
There's no word
on a motive.
In France, there's new evidence
that the man
who killed 84 people in a truck
attack in
Nice had been radicalized just
recently. The
uncle of Mohamed Bouhlel said
today an Islamic
State militant recruited him in
the last two
weeks.
And a prosecutor said there's
further evidence.
FRANCOIS MOLINS, Paris
Prosecutor (through
translator): Another witness
told us that
he started growing a beard 10
days ago, explaining
-- and I quote the witness --
that the beard
was for religious purposes. He
had also mentioned
the Islamic State, saying he
didn't understand
why ISIS could not claim a
territory.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Meanwhile,
France held a
nationwide moment of silence
today. And in
Nice, thousands gathered on the
promenade
where the attacker plowed into
crowds of people
last Thursday.
A document tied to last year's
Iran nuclear
deal has surfaced, and it
indicates that key
restrictions will start to lapse
within 11
years. The Associated Press
reports that,
beginning in 2027, Iran will be
allowed to
install more powerful machines
to enrich uranium.
That could reduce the time
needed to build
a bomb to six months or even
less.
An investigative report today
for the World
Anti-Doping Agency details
extensive state-supported
doping by Russia since 2011. Its
findings
go well beyond previous
allegations of Russian
cheating at the 2014 Winter
Olympics in Sochi.
The report's author, Richard
McLaren, said
in Toronto that the biggest
surprise is the
extent of state oversight and
control.
RICHARD MCLAREN, World
Anti-Doping Agency:
From all of this comes a picture
which emerges
of an intertwined network of
state involvement.
It was a failsafe method of
permitting cheating
Russian athletes to compete
while using performance-enhancing
substances.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
Anti-Doping Agency called
for the International Olympic
Committee to
ban all Russian athletes from
next month's
Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro.
In response,
Russian President Vladimir Putin
said all
officials -- quote -- "directly
responsible"
for the cover-up will be
suspended.
Wall Street got off to a slow
start. The Dow
Jones industrial average gained
16 points
to close at 18533. The Nasdaq
rose 26 points
and the S&P 500 added five.
And President Obama has awarded
the Medal
of Honor to a Vietnam War
veteran nearly 50
years after he helped save more
than 40 U.S.
soldiers. Retired Army
Lieutenant Colonel
Charles Kettles received the
nation's highest
military award today for
repeatedly flying
his helicopter into enemy fire.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
To the dozens of American
soldiers that he
saved in Vietnam half-a-century
ago, Chuck
is the reason they lived and
came home and
had children and grandchildren,
entire family
trees made possible by the
actions of this
one man.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Kettles
originally received
the Distinguished Service Cross,
but the Veterans
History Project campaigned to
upgrade it to
the Medal of Honor.
That's it from Washington for
now. I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And stay with us
all night
long for our special "PBS
NewsHour"/NPR coverage
of the Republican National
Convention. It
all starts at 8:00 p.m. Eastern.
And from Cleveland, that's the
"NewsHour"
for now. I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
later tonight.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.